>> Speaker 2: And why isn't the header
included as part of the impact?
>> Todd Gardner: Sure so
in this particular example,
let me go to back to this one, so
the header in this particular case
doesn't move during the load sequence.
If we go back to our page check this out,
so here's the header,
here's the promo banner,
and here's the hero image.
Now if I reload this page,
>> Todd Gardner: It's really slow.
There it is, see the header is there,
the body is there,
the promo image forces its way in.
The header didn't change,
the header didn't shift around,
the header is where it rendered, it didn't
move, that's why it's not included.
It wasn't part of the impact,
it didn't change at all as
part of this layout shift.
The things that changed
was the promo banner and
then everything below it was forced down.
So that's why everything except the header
was included in this calculation.
>> Speaker 2: So
what happens if you scroll down the page?
>> Todd Gardner: It's wherever
the user's viewport is.
So if you start, if the user starts
scrolling down before the page is done,
well, like things are still loading,
and things move in the user's viewport,
that's a new CLS score or that's a new
layout shift and will be included.
So, it's dependent on user interaction,
these aren't the kind of scores.
One thing,
I think a lot of people get hung up on
is that there's not one score here.
It's not like like you can say go to this
page and this page is like this is your
LCP this is your CLS, and that's just
definitive is what it is, it's not.
Every single time a user comes in the user
is going to do different things the user
is gonna be on a different device,
on a different network.
And they're gonna interact with
the page in a different way and
it's gonna generate a unique score.
And so you can't necessarily
go to your page and say,
I ran a report and it says my LCP is
one second, and that's what it is.
No, it's going to be
thousands of LCP scores,
tens of thousands, depending on how big
and busy your site is and how many users,
all of those LCP scores
coming in together.
And Google is gonna consolidate
all of that data together and
pick what is the general score.
It's going to use what's
called the 75th percentile.
We're gonna talk about statistics and
how to interpret all this
data here in a little while.
But it's not one score,
it's lots and lots of scores.
So if your website has a user interface
that it seems to be encouraging the user
to start interacting before it's done.
And other things shift around the page,
maybe a little bit down in the viewport,
that's going to affect your CLS score.
Because you've encouraged the user to
look at something that's not ready to be
looked at yet.
And so it's gonna cause a layout shift,
you need to try and
be done with everything that
the user is going to see and
prevent those layout
shifts from happening.
Ideally, layout shifts don't happen
outside of the viewport either because you
don't know where the user's
gonna be looking, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: You might be talking about
this later, but if you're doing service
side rendering is this, just remove
most of problems with the layout shifts?
>> Todd Gardner: No, because of resources,
so client-side rendering definitely is
a big cause of layout shifts,
is asynchronously rendered content.
But even if you just have like a giant
image, if you decide to tell the browser,
hey, I don't know how big this Images,
and this image takes a long time to load.
When the image eventually does load, the
browser will figure out how big it is and
shove it into the document,
which can cause a layout shift.
There's actually a subtle layout
shift that happens in this page.
It's not quite as good for
our example of what this is.
But the images itself is actually causing
another layout shift because it's so
big that sometimes it renders
into the document layout and
pushes everything around.
>> Speaker 2: Are these based
on Dom elements specifically?
>> Todd Gardner: Yeah,
it's based on the Dom element size.
>> Speaker 2: So if you have something
that's rendering in a Canvas that is
changing the- Yeah, so
it's not looking inside of the Canvas.
>> Todd Gardner: So if you had a Canvas
that's like 200 pixels by 200 pixels and
stuff in the canvas moves and shifts
around, Google doesn't know about that,
doesn't care about that.
As long as the canvas is 200 by 200 and
the canvas doesn't Like when
the canvas is created or whatever,
if it doesn't have that 200 by 200
reserved in the layout, it's fine.
If it doesn't have that reserved
in the layout and then it pops in,
everything around the Canvas will move and
that will trigger a layout shift.
>> Speaker 3: Semi-related to that,
about reserved layout spots
are skeletons counted in layout shifts.
>> Todd Gardner: I don't
know what a skeleton is.
>> Speaker 3: I think they mean
the kind of the the skeleton,
like placeholder kind of-
>> Todd Gardner: Yeah, so
you use a placeholder if you're like hey
this box is going to be 200 by 200 in
the future and.
And for now, I'm gonna put a placeholder
there that reserves the space.
That's exactly how you prevent layout
shifts, because when you swap it out,
the layout does not move around it.
A layout shift happens when
there is not a skeleton and
you just shove in a new element,
not caring what was there before, and
everything has to reorganize around it.
That's the layout shift and that's the
problem that we're measuring right here.
>> Speaker 3: And does CLS consider
the layout shift from an iframe?
>> Todd Gardner: From an iframe,
so the iframe itself,
if an iframe comes in initially.
And you didn't specify its correct size.
Let's say you lazy load an iframe and
then it changes size when it pops in,
that is a layout shift.
Now, if you care about the stuff that's
inside the iframe is also shifting,
that's a different thing,
that doesn't like bubble out.